this is from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4ZfkezDTXQ&ab_channel=AndrewHuberman

Tool 1 that is discussed is some kind of low friction place to store ideas and
thoughts throughout the day, such as my remarkable, cal newport actually
mentions using remarkable. But also this vimwiki is a good place to easily and
quickly type up some ideas. The second part of this workflow is to move the
ideas etc to a place which I take seriously, so say that there is some idea for
a paper or an article then Cal Newport suggests moving to the scrivner which is
a tool for writing etc. The core idea here is to move it to somewhere where one
feels is serious and where one usually does serious work that then is shared and
so on. 

Tool 2 is active recall. The core idea as expressed in this conversation was the
following: replicating the information from scratch as if teaching a class
without looking at your notes. ( side note from myself: I have enough notes and
knowledge in this wiki about how to do active recall using software tools such
as Anki, and those notes are like 3 years old at this point. But I have yet to
put that into practice. I think I really have to start doing that since with a
kid now the amount of time I have to learn have decreased significantly. And
active recall is harder energy and effort wise for sure but it is much more time
efficient by all accounts.)

Tool 3 be and become more tolerant when it comes to boredom. Dont go seeking it
but dont distract yourself either as soon as you are bored since that will
condition your brain to always say seek out your phone or something when you are
bored. Because deep work is by definition hard and boring since there is not
that much novelity. This is also called the gap effect in neuroscience
literature. 

Solitude depravation is an interesting concept that Cal comes with. Solitude
here is in the pshycological sense which Cal says here means that those that are
solitude depraved dont have any time during the day in which they dont consume
anything that was created by another human brain. This is really bad. So in
other words it is very important to have times during the day where we dont get
that much external stimulation. In fact there is some neuroscience litterature
that points to an amazing effect. This effect is called hyperplasticity. This
occurs in adults when they have been stimulation deprived for a couple of hours,
when this happens the brain experiences hyperplasticity and can learn new things
much faster than if they did not have this stimulation break. 

Tool 4 fixed work schedule. The idea here is that you should not make lists or
be able to throw more hours at a problem or work or something new that you want
to do or learn. You have a fixed schedule and have to fit whatever it is that
you want to get done into that schedule. Another aspect of this is that you
should work in time blocks during the day, i.e if you know that you will have a
bunch of meeting one day and your selfwork time is spread out then do the low
cognitive demanding tasks during those times, and whatever requries deep
thinking and focus should be done in the morning when you have say 90 min of
uninterrupted time for example.

Tool 5 pull based workflow. For your work have a list of things that you are
currently working on, max 3 things at a time. Anything except these three top
things get put on the list but they are not being actively worked on. So no
email or meetings should be taken or sent etc about anything that is not in the
top 3. As soon as one of the items in the top 3 are done we pull in the next
item in the queue to our top 3. If someone wants you to work on something that
is not in the top 3 they can add it to your queue, or if they want to add
information about a task not in the top 3 they can just append it to that point
in the list so no information is ever lost, but we only have to care about the
top 3 things until one of them is done. Fucking beautiful way of working.





---
Status: :üèõ:  
tags: [[040 Science]] - [[Health & Fitness]] - [[Huberman-podcast]] 
date:2024-03-11
